Email Policy
============

For the last homework, I spent probably about 25 hours responding to
student email. It is _fantastic_ that you are willing to ask
questions. Keep doing that! _But_, many of the emails indicated that
people weren't thinking critically, or asking around among their
peers. So for this assignment, I am instituting a policy for sending
me email about this. This does two things. First, it means you have to
start learning how to troubleshoot problems on your own (which is one
of the primary skills of a software engineer), and it means that when
I do get email from a student it is likely something really weird, and
I enjoy troubleshooting weird things.

The policy is:

1. Before emailing, try to __characterize the problem__. Do not email
anybody saying "it doesn't work". This is vague to the point of
pointlessness. When you do email, summarize the problem.

2. Before emailing, try to __debug the problem and find where__ the
problem arises. You can do this with a debugger, or (as I prefer) you
can put in `printf` or `cout` statements. When you do email, summarize
what you've already done to troubleshoot.

3. Email your __TA before emailing Gabe__ on issues that you think the
TA can handle. They are paid for this. 

4. When emailing about code, __make a GitHub Gist__ and send the
link. This way we can refer to symbols by line number, and can
converse using GitHub. You can create a private or public Gist, it
doesn't matter to us.

5. When emailing us on any topic, __use correct (or approximatley
correct) English__. If we can't understand what you're even asking we
may just delete the email without responding. Communicating clearly is
another primary skill of an engineer (software or otherwise). _If
English is not your main language, don't worry. Just make an effort._

![Plz Reed](https://raw.github.com/johnsogg/cs2270/master/Email_guidelines.png)
